>> Brian Holt: So
let's take a look at this.
>> Brian Holt: let friendsAtYourParty = 0.
If i = 10, less than or
equal to 10, right?
This is the normal for
loop that we've been seeing before.
Now, this let i = 0.
This is only in scope for
this for loop, right?
As soon as this for loop is finished,
I try and console.log(i) down here.
It's not gonna work, right, because
there's only in scope for that for loop.
Now if I move this i outside of here,
notice that this does work.
Because the i is in scope
inside of the for loop.
>> Brian Holt: Now if I say
console.log(friendsAtYourParty),
is that gonna work?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
cuz that was declared out.
That was created outside of the for
loop here.
Now, let's go back up here and just to
throw another wrench into something.
Let's say if I say let
getSomeOtherVariable right here and
I don't declare it or I don't give it any
sort of value, and I try and do this.
>> Brian Holt: Now, is this gonna work?
Yes, it's going to work.
Because yet, some other variable was
created outside the yet statement, right?
This is the key that I
want you to look for.
It matters where it was declared,
where it was created, right?
So defect despite the fact that I'm
reading it like really assigning
the value in here,
it matters where it was created.
So I just want to like reiterate here.
Scope is hard, right?
Especially when you're learning these
things, it cannot it can be not intuitive
what's gonna be in scope and
what's not gonna be in scope.
But my advice to you is just pay attention
to where things are declared, right?
Wherever you put your let or your console,
that's, what matters, right?
It doesn't matter where
it's where we declared.
It doesn't matter where it's red or
anything like that.
It matters where it was created.
And if you're coming from another
language, scope can work a little bit
different in JavaScript than
it does in other languages.
I don't wanna get too much into it,
because it's a really deep rabbit hole.
[LAUGH] And I want to fill your
brains with other useful things and
not that kind of stuff, right?
>> Brian Holt: So just to hammer home and
be an asshole about it.
Let's just go full bore on this and work
through this particular problem together
and figure out what's gonna be in scope,
what's gonna break and
what's not gonna break, okay?
So I have a bunch of stuff in here and
let's go through and
actually figure out what's in scope and
what's not in scope, okay?
And we'll just work down through
the console logs as I see them here.
So the first thing,
this is just declaring some variables.
This is declaring the function.
Remember do stuff won't actually happen
until do stuff is called, right?
That's important.
Got some variables down here,
for loop down here.
So the first one that's
gonna be run down here in
this while loop is console.log(A), okay?
So let's figure out if
console.log(A) is gonna break.
So let's go find out where A was declared,
right?
That's the important thing here.
So we're gonna scroll up here and
we see const A = "A" up here.
>> Brian Holt: Well, that was created
outside the while loop, right?
So it's gonna be in scope, right?
So this is gonna work.
This is gonna log out a three times,
right,
cuz it's gonna go through
this loop three times.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so good so far?
The next one we're gonna
hit here is console.log(E).
Okay, well, where's E declared?
Right there.
It doesn't matter that it's modified here,
right, or that it's being read up here.
It matters that it's created here.
So console.log(E), that's gonna work.
Console.log(G), where's G?
>> Brian Holt: Right there.
Is that gonna work?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Brian Holt: No,
because it's inside the wireloop, right?
So once the while loop is finished,
it's gone.
It's gone forever.
>> Speaker 2: So wouldn't be true to say
that it would work as long as E is less
than 3?
So it will print out G three times and
then give you an air?
>> Brian Holt: It won't
print out G at all.
So because the console.log is down here,
right?
So this is only gonna happen once,
right, down here.
And when it goes to look for G, G is not
in scope, because it was thrown away
once that wild loop is finished
>> Speaker 2: Great, so while he is less
than 3 G exists, but nothing is
happening to it until after words.
>> Brian Holt: Right, correct.
>> Speaker 2: When it does
not Is the same one, okay?
>> Brian Holt: Yep and actually,
if you wanna get really technical into it,
G is going to be created and
destroyed three times.
So once the loop is finished,
it throws everything out and
then it re-initializes
everything on the new loop.
So you get a fresh slate
on every iteration.
>> Brian Holt: When I use the term
iteration, that means one loop, right?
One course of the loop.
Let's refer to it as an iteration.
>> Brian Holt: Did I answer your question?
>> Speaker 2: Yes.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, so
then I called doSutff and I pass in B.
So let's go up here and I have B,
which is the parameter here.
So console.log(B),
that's gonna work, right,
cuz that's just coming
here from the parameter.
So that's gonna work.
I declare C here.
I declare H here.
So I have an if statement here.
Create D.
I reassign H, console.log(D).
Second work.
>> Brian Holt: No, it's not gonna work,
because that was declared inside.
It was created inside the if statement.
So console.log(D) here, that's gonna fail.
Console.log(H), is that gonna work?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Brian Holt: It is.
It is gonna work,
because it was declared up here.
The let H is up here above
the if statement, right?
So it is in scope.
>> Speaker 3: So
that just gives you letter H, right?
>> Brian Holt: Actually,
it is gonna be something else.
>> Speaker 3: Why?
>> Brian Holt: Cuz it reassigned up here.
So this is overriding this H right here.
>> Speaker 3: Literally something else.
>> Brian Holt: Literally something else.
>> Brian Holt: Does that make sense?
>> Speaker 3: So you called it
outside after you reassigned it, so-
>> Brian Holt: Yes,
I create it up here and here.
Because I'm not saying let H again,
it's actually referring to this same H.
And so it's reassigning this H up here.
Makes sense?
Cool, did you get that as well?
Okay, cool.
>> Speaker 2: So even though the if
statement is part of the doStuff function,
so D is defined within the function and
the place where you're calling
console.log(D) is also in the function?
It's already thrown away,
because the if statement is over.
>> Brian Holt: Yep, correct.
>> Speaker 3: Currently brackets are sort
of like walls keeping stuff from
coming inside of it.
It keeps everything that's outside
of the curly brackets out.
>> Brian Holt: It's basically keeping
everything inside of it, right?
So things can get in from the outside.
But inside of it,
it won't let anything out.
That's a better way of thinking about it.
>> Brian Holt: Okay and then F is
being reassigned right there, okay?
So now, doStuff is over.
We're gonna go down to
console.log(B) right here.
Is this gonna work?
Well, B is the parameter up here.
So no, this is not gonna work.
Cuz once the functioning is over,
then the perimeters are thrown out.
So that's gonna fail.
Console.log(C), let's
figure out where C is.
That's inside the function body
of doStuff, it's not gonna work.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, console.log(F).
Well, F is reassigned right there and
it's declared up there.
So yeah, that's gonna work.
>> Brian Holt: Good,
let's just throw one more wrench
into all of this, cuz that's fun.
So down here, I have all the codes,
so you can actually go through and
play with this and
make things work as you want to.